Apart from sensors, elements are those members of the node that can be both read from and write to, and in here we have 3 different types of it.

Programmable variable is variable that should be affected by programs.

Force variable is variable that is going to be affected when user wants direct action over some element.

- **switch("light", 0, $c1, $fc1)** switch function is logical representation of real life switch. It can have only two different states; on and off or in our case 1(ON) and 0(OFF). The first argument of this function is name in human readable form. Second argument is index of the switch on controlled unit. Third argument is variable that holds programmable value and fourth argument is variable that holds force value. And what is the difference in between the last two. Third argument is going to be changed by programs defined in the script, but force variable will be used by user or agent in order to overwrite instructions from the program. Basically force variable is dominant state.
- **trigger("ACswitch", 1, $t1, $ft1)** trigger is value that is constantly transmitter to the controlled unit; you can call it transmitter if you like. First argument is name of the trigger in human readable form. Second is index of the transmitter on the physical unit or micro controller. Third and fourth arguments are, programmable value and forced value.
- **list("ACmodes", 0, $acModes, $acModeNames, $ACselectedMode, $fl1)** list is basically same as trigger but with one difference. While value from trigger is taken directly on controlled unit, value of list is taken as index. For example, with trigger you send value of 150 that should be used to set red element of your light; with list you have like 3 different modes of work like in the case of AC [off, heating, cooling]; when you send value 0 with list transmitter, micro controller option off is going to be selected because that option corresponds with index 0 from the provided list. First argument is the name of the list in human readable form. Second argument is index of this transmitter on the controlled unit. Third is the list of select-able elements in indexes or integers like [0, 1, 2]; forth is the same list but now in strings like [off, heating, cooling]. Fifth and sixth arguments are selected index in programmable mode and in force mode.